{{{#!comment
This wiki page is auto-generated from the file
projects/AirwayGeneration2015/Summary.wiki
edit that file, don't edit this page on trac!
}}}

= Development and analysis of patient-based complete conducting airway models =

Welcome to the Chaste wiki.

This section contains pages generated automatically from the source code accompanying Bordas et al. "Development and analysis of patient-based complete conducting airway models", currently in review at PLoS ONE. 


Before running these examples you will need to [wiki:InstallGuides/InstallGuide install Chaste's dependencies and the source code for the current Chaste trunk version].
The easiest way to do this is using an Ubuntu machine (or an Ubuntu virtual machine) as discussed on InstallGuides/UbuntuPackage.
Note that Chaste is only fully supported on !Linux/Unix systems, so users of Windows or Mac OS X may need to follow the virtual machine route.
For manual installation of each dependency, on any version of Linux, see DeveloperInstallGuide.

Before looking at this project, you may wish to look at some of the [UserTutorials basic user tutorials], particularly those marked as Lung tutorials.

== Getting the code ==

If you are reading this as a Wiki page and do not have the bolt-on project you can download it anonymously as  [attachment:AirwayGeneration2015.tar.gz an attachment] to this page. 
The segmentation data associated with the project can also be downloaded as an [attachment:AirwayGeneration2015Segmentations.tar.gz attachment].

== Documentation ==


 * The project must be checked out into a copy of the Chaste trunk source code
    in <chaste_directory>/projects/AirwayGeneration2015
    
 *  Unpack AirwayGeneration2015Segmentations.tar.gz somewhere. 
    This file contains the raw segmentation data used as the basis for the 
    study.

 * Edit the environment variables in bin/airways_paper_setup.sh to match your 
    installation.

Tests in this project are not designed to be run directly through scons. Instead
you should first build the tests

{{{
cd <chaste_directory>
scons co=1 b=GccOptNative_ndebug projects/AirwayGeneration2015
}}} 

Then use provided scripts in the 'bin' directory to run the code using the 
segmentation data as input. airways_paper_setup.sh should be sourced prior to 
running them. For example, to generate the complete conducting airway tree models, 
run

{{{
source projects/AirwayGeneration2015/bin/airways_paper_setup.sh
projects/AirwayGeneration2015/bin/generate_airways.sh
}}}

Output data generated by the projects will be automatically copied to the 
directory where you unpacked AirwayGeneration2015Segmentations.tar.gz

A number of R scripts exist in the 'R' directory that can be used to recreate
plots and tables from Bordas et al. 2015 using the data output from simulations


For further information on using Chaste to solve these and related problems, see our [wiki:ChasteGuides extensive guide material].